Add LLM tutorial (#773)
streamlit/docs: content/kb/tutorials/llm/index.md

---
title: LLM Tutorials
slug: /knowledge-base/tutorials/llm-tutorials
---

> # LLM Tutorial: OpenAI, LangChain, and Streamlit in 18 lines of code

Reviewer: The naming here feels a bit odd.

I would imagine that eventually we have an LLM tutorial landing page and then a bunch of broken out tutorials (similar to deploy and connections), is that the idea?

To me the most appropriate title for this content in the docs (vs a blog title) would be something like "Getting started with LLM apps" or "LLM app quickstart".

I would vote that we update the title / slug to reflect something like that and have a later PR to add the index page.

Defer to the docs team on this decision, that is just my 2c

Author: You've hit it exactly: This is a single tutorial that's going to become a category of tutorials. I was stuck between a generic category "LLM Tutorials" which will look good in navigation (short and clear) and the fact that we are in fact just starting out with one for now. I used the slug of the category it's going to become (plural) but made the visible text for users singular. The title of the tutorial was the more specific version thinking of it as one of many to come.

I'm fine renaming everything as well. "Getting started with LLM apps" feels a little long for an entry in navigation, but "LLM quickstart" is better.

In this tutorial, you will build a Streamlit LLM app that can generate text from a user-provided prompt. This Python app will use the LangChain framework and Streamlit. Optionally, you can deploy your app to [Streamlit Community Cloud](https://streamlit.io/cloud) when you're done.

> *This tutorial is adapted from a [blog](https://blog.streamlit.io/langchain-tutorial-1-build-an-llm-powered-app-in-18-lines-of-code/) post by Chanin Nantesanamat.*

Reviewer 2: Use meaningful link text here https://developers.google.com/style/link-text

```suggestion
This tutorial is adapted from the [LangChain tutorial #1: Build an LLM-powered app in 18 lines of code] blog post by Chanin Nantesanamat.
```
```

<Cloud src="https://doc-tutorial-llm-18-lines-of-code.streamlit.app/?embed=true" height="600" />

### Objectives

1. Get an OpenAI key from the end user.
2. Validate the user's OpenAI key.
3. Get a text prompt from the user.
4. Authenticate OpenAI with the user's key.
5. Send the user's prompt to OpenAI's API.
6. Get a response and display it.

Bonus: Deploy the app on Streamlit Community Cloud!

### Prerequisites

> - Python 3.7+

Reviewer: bump to 3.8+ since we no longer support 3.7 as of last month

Author: Excellent note.

- Streamlit
- LangChain
- [OpenAI API key](https://platform.openai.com/account/api-keys?ref=blog.streamlit.io)

### Setup coding environment

In your IDE (integrated coding environment), open the terminal and install the following three Python libraries:

```python
pip install streamlit openai langchain
```

Create a `requirements.txt` file located in the root of your working directory and save these dependencies. This is necessary for deploying the app to the Streamlit Community Cloud later.

```python
streamlit
openai
langchain
```

### Building the app

The app is only 18 lines of code:

```python
import streamlit as st
from langchain.llms import OpenAI

st.title('🦜🔗 Quickstart App')

> openai_api_key = st.sidebar.text_input('OpenAI API Key')

Reviewer: should be `type='password')

Author: Excellent note.

def generate_response(input_text):
  llm = OpenAI(temperature=0.7, openai_api_key=openai_api_key)
  st.info(llm(input_text))

with st.form('my_form'):
  text = st.text_area('Enter text:', 'What are the three key pieces of advice for learning how to code?')
  submitted = st.form_submit_button('Submit')
  if not openai_api_key.startswith('sk-'):
    st.warning('Please enter your OpenAI API key!', icon='⚠')
  if submitted and openai_api_key.startswith('sk-'):
    generate_response(text)
```

To start, create a new Python file and save it as `streamlit_app.py` in the root of your working directory.

1. Import the necessary Python libraries.

    ```python
    import streamlit as st
    from langchain.llms import OpenAI
    ```

2. Create the app's title using `st.title`.

    ```python
    st.title('🦜🔗 Quickstart App')
    ```

3. Add a text input box for the user to enter their OpenAI API key.

    ```python

>     openai_api_key = st.sidebar.text_input('OpenAI API Key')

Reviewer: should be `type='password'`

Author: Excellent note.

    ```

4. Define a function to authenticate to OpenAI API with the user's key, send a prompt, and get an AI-generated response. This function accepts the user's prompt as an argument and displays the AI-generated response in a blue box using `st.info`.

    ```python
    def generate_response(input_text):
    llm = OpenAI(temperature=0.7, openai_api_key=openai_api_key)

>     st.info(llm(input_text))

Reviewer: Fix indents

Author: Same as below. Not sure how that got changed since it doesn't display like that locally, but I'll confirm.

    ```

5. Finally, use `st.form()` to create a text box (`st.text_area()`) for user input. When the user clicks `Submit`, the `generate-response()` function is called with the user's input as an argument.

    ```python
    with st.form('my_form'):
    text = st.text_area('Enter text:', 'What are the three key pieces of advice for learning how to code?')

>     submitted = st.form_submit_button('Submit')

Reviewer: Fix indents

    if not openai_api_key.startswith('sk-'):
        st.warning('Please enter your OpenAI API key!', icon='⚠')
    if submitted and openai_api_key.startswith('sk-'):

>         generate_response(text)

Reviewer: Fix indents

Author: This is odd. I just checked and it is indented locally for me, so not sure how it got changed in the commit. I will verify.
